Security is a critical component of modern applications.
This created a new concept called Devsecops.
In this lecture, we are going to learn what is Devsecops and why do we need it.
At this point, we learned that DevOps enables you to deploy your applications at rapid pace.
In some cases, your applications can be deployed in seconds.
Now, if you think about traditional security checks, for those of you who have worked before, DevOps
was a thing, you know, after your code was written, it needed to be reviewed by someone to see if
there is any problem.
You would run some static analysis tool and then during testing phase, a testing group is going to
come and do some penetration testing and all that stuff.
In DevOps, there is no time for traditional way of doing security checks.
You cannot wait for some manual checks and balances to run before you can deploy.
That will reduce the time to market for your application.
So you need to integrate security with DevOps.
So when it comes to integrating security with DevOps, it follows the same DevOps principle.
Remember the DevOps principle?
Automate everything, codify everything.
Similarly, instead of manual security processes, you have to automate the security processes in case
of a problem.
You need to auto remediate the security errors and you have to codify the security processes.
Hence Devsecops was born.
Devsecops means implementing security in your DevOps pipeline, so let's understand it in a little bit
deeper level.
So when we talk about security, what are the security components in a modern application?
Everything starts with infrastructure as code.
So you need to think about securing that infrastructure as code, such as maybe you are using a security
group which is too permissive.
You are using a non secure army with your easy to.
Then you need to think about code security, so you need to run some static code analysis.
This part is also known as fast or static application security testing.
Maybe you have left your code vulnerable to attacks, so static code analysis is going to detect all
those vulnerabilities.
So a lot of you probably are familiar with static code analysis.
So if you think from the DevOps perspective, you are still going to run the same static core analysis,
but all it means is you need to automate this analysis rather than someone manually triggering it and
then notifying you if there is a vulnerability.
Moving along with the code security, you should not be hard coding password, hot coding skills, etc.
Maybe you are poorly managing secrets.
And finally, maybe your code is vulnerable to SQL injection, cross-site scripting, etc..
Another example of security in your code could be maybe you are using some vulnerable packages.
Now, moving on to the dynamic security, this one is also known as DEST or dynamic application security
testing.
Static code analysis means the code is not implemented yet.
Generally, static code analysis is run before the code is compiled, whereas the dynamic security comes
into play when the code is deployed and running your application.
So maybe when you deployed your code, everything was great.
But down the line one of the packages, some vulnerability was found.
So you need to have some sort of way to detect those vulnerability on the running applications.
And you are running your code on some sort of operating system used in Easy to Miss.
Maybe some of the packages became vulnerable for the operating system.
So you need to have a way to detect those vulnerable packages and auto to remediate.
Kubernetes is super popular right now.
So I just want to go over some of the areas that comes into play for Kubernetes security.
So one superpower of Kubernetes is, since it is open source, it is very flexible.
You can adopt any open source tools and run with it.
But then the downside is there are more attack areas.
So Kubernetes, you need to worry about the security of your image.
Can someone escalate the privilege and attack the underlying host?
Can someone run the Docker container in root mode?
You have to think about the host security host, as in where your pods are running.
One example could be easy to worker nodes, so you need to worry about Cisco bench noncompliance reports
or vulnerable mines.
You want to think about pod and runtime security.
Maybe your port security group is too open, the network policy may be too permissive, etc. Remember
that all devsecops means that all the security areas that you already know with traditional security
model, you just need to automate it.
So a couple of fancy terms you need to know for interviews as well as in your projects.
The first term is defense in depth.
Defence in depth means you need to apply security in all layers so it makes it harder for the attacker
to abuse your system.
So if we take a look at an example, let's say this is a traditional three tier application with the
front end, the back end and the database, you need to think about the ways this system can get attacked.
So the public facing elastic load balancer can be attacked.
So how do you secure that?
You integrate a web application firewall or a blue shield and then some sort of frontend code is running
in a jar file running within easy to that could get attacked.
So how do you secure that you use proper security group.
This should be running in private subnet.
You should be running dynamic analysis tools and then the internal load balancer could get attacked.
So make sure all of the traffic coming from these front DC tools can come to this load balancer.
Similarly, the backend could get attacked, so you have to put measures for that.
You are accessing some sort of database from your code.
So that means there is some user ID password involved, so that could get compromised.
So how do you prevent that?
So you should use key encrypted secrets manager rather than saving user ID and password in plaintext
in your repository or in a config file.
Similarly, your database is one of the most important things in your application that could get attacked.
How do you protect against that?
You should encrypt your database with some sort of customer managed CMS keys and then only give access
for those keys onto the roles of those easy tools.
So note that we are not just applying the.
In just one area, such as database.
Since database is the most critical component of your system, if someone tries to attack the database,
that hacker needs to go through all these layers the first load balancer, then the core, the second
load balancer, then the backend code, etc..
So that's what we mean by defense in depth.
Similarly, when you are implementing Devsecops, you need to put security in all layers.
So all these components such as provisioning a load balancer, provisioning EC2, creating a database,
accessing database from the code, they could all be automated.
So how would a defense in depth look like in Devsecops?
So what that means is when you are provisioning your load balancer, make sure it is integrated with
WAF and Blue Shield.
Similarly, when you are creating your issues, make sure the security groups are not permissive, etc.
and we are going to go through some tools that will help you automate this stuff.
The second fancy term is shift left.
So left means starting off a process to the right means end stage of a process.
So typical development lifecycle will be coded first.
The new build it, test it, deploy it and monitor it.
So what shift left means is start integrating security from early phase.
So if we go back to the previous example, if you think about it, in that traditional project model
before Devsecops, the most time security will get engaged is when something is running.
So you deploy your application and then some vulnerability came up and then security will jump in and
try to fix it.
So in the shift left Devsecops world, you integrate security measures as well as remediate before the
application is deployed.
So for example, before you deploy your application, you need to build and test your application.
So you integrate some measures that detect vulnerability and halt the pipeline if some vulnerability
is detected.
And even before building and testing when you are coding, there should be some measures that automatically
scans your code and detect vulnerability.
All right.
Now that we understand what is devsecops and why we need it, let's take a look at some of the dipstick
ops pipelines.